# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

## Description:

Course project carried out for Getting and Cleaning Data offered by John Hopkins University through Coursera. 

Data originally obtained from: 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

## Repo content:

- "README.md": This file. 

- "CODEBOOK.md": A description of data collection methodology and variable metadata for the "UCI HAR Dataset" and the "run_analysis.R" output files. 

- "/UCI HAR Dataset": Original dataset (see above). 

	- "/test"
	- "/train"
	- "/activity_labels"
	- "/features"
	- "/feature_info"
	- "/README.txt"

- "/run_analysis.R": R script for a function that performs the following actions on the "UCI HAR Dataset" (as specificied in project assignment instructions):
	
	1. Merges the train and test datasets. 
	2. Extracts only the features containing mean() and std() results for each measurement. 
	3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. 
	4. Appropriately labels the merged dataset with descriptive variable names. 
	5. From the dataset in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy dataset with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. 
	
	See Analysis Notes below for more details and usage. 

- "/UCI_HAR_meansummary_merge_data.txt": Output file from step 5 of "run_analysis.R". 

## *run_analysis* Usage:

- "run_analysis.R" can be sourced as a function to R using the command "source("run_analysis.R")".  

- The function accepts two inputs:
	- *object* (default): assigns the tidy dataset from step 5 to an R obj named "meansummary_merge_data". 
	- *export*: exports the tidy dataset from step 5 to the working directory as a .txt file named "UCI_HAR_meansummary_merge_data.txt". 

- "run_analysis.R" requires the dplyr package to be loaded. 

- "run_analysis.R" and the "/UCI HAR Dataset" folder must be in the working directory for the script to run properly.

- The "UCI_HAR_meansummary_merge_data.txt" file in the repo was generated by running *run_analysis("export")* from the console on R version 4.0.0 with the dplyr package version 0.8.5. It can be read into R with *read.table()* using default parameters. 

- Per instructions, only mean() and std() features were extracted from the original datasets. meanFreq() and gravityMean() functions were not considered to be part of the instructed subset.

